Welcome to another edition of J.W. Broadcasting.
We have much to share with you this month.
These are some of the highlights.
We will visit with a sister who experienced severe opposition
from members of her family.
But she stayed faithful to Jehovah and was rewarded as a result.
And what can help a servant of Jehovah make a wise career choice?
This young brother was tempted to pursue a risky secular career
but a scriptural principal helped him make a wise decision.
Also in our program, we will have a new episode of Become Jehovah's Friend
with Caleb and Sophia.
This is the July program of J.W. Broadcasting.
As our organization grows,
so does the need for translation of our literature.
Many remote translation offices have been set up in countries
around the world to keep improving the quality of our translation work.
Recently, one such office was dedicated in the African country of Namibia.
And as experiences show time and time again,
many benefits spiritually from the steady expansion of our translation efforts.
Our brothers and sisters in Namibia are no exception.
I am happy because I am able to read the truth in a shkwanyama
as I cannot read other languages.
Things have become easy to understand
because it has been explained well and is easily understandable
it reaches the heart
as the publications become available in our language
it touched my heart so that I even feel physically strong.
The governing body has realized that if we are going to get the very highest quality translation
the translators should be in the area where their language is spoken every day
and many times when the translators were located at branch offices
far away from where their languages were spoken
then many other language words were creeping in
and also the people began to lose touch with just the everyday way of expressing things.
A remote translation office is an office where translation and recording of our publication stack place
we look at where the language is predominantly spoken
and also do we have enough congregations
are we going to have enough publishers to support the translation office?
Jehovah blessed the decision because our brothers and sisters
from the local congregation can support the translation of this can commute
and also the translators can work along with the congregation.
I work with one of the translation teams
Field Service has a big influence on my work
it helps me increase my vocabulary
I hear how people express themselves and that helps me a lot in my assignment
because the RTO is in the location where the language is originally spoken
you get to hear expressions that I'm not used to
and I can also use them during my assignment
my vocabulary also increases because I'm around people who speak the kwaniaman language
so there is a lot of benefits being in the location
Remote translation offices really like many things
I think have come up and kind of fooled the governing body in a sense
because we didn't really initially see the tremendous value that they would have
because as we've expanded into more and more and more languages
if we would have had to try to have all of these languages at branch offices
our branch offices would have to be so large
that the expense would be really overwhelming for the organization
It's a wonderful privilege to be with you brothers and sisters here in Namibia
for this very exciting location
this is the very first time that so many congregations
have been tied together via internet for a meeting
do you know that the number of Bible studies has increased by one million in just two years
why is it that the number of Bible studies is increasing so much in the world
we have to attribute this at least in part to the tremendous translation work
that's being accomplished around the world
at present we have three project teams
so a project team is made of three translators
waking together and in December of 2014
they move to these beautiful facilities that will be dedicated today
the translation office is brought closer to you so that we can have a share
also in making sure the publications are available
to accomplish this translation work
we need remote translation offices all over the world
is it your desire brothers and sisters that we should
dedicate this remote translation office to the worship and praise of our God Jehovah
the governing body has approved my addressing something that Jesus himself spoke of
on a number of occasions
and I might say at the outset
this is by no means a pessimistic speech meant to discourage anyone
it is a realistic discussion that we all need to be prepared for
the topic is persecution
it can come in many forms some are very subtle means to discourage a servant of God
others are more direct forms of opposition
but not unexpected
the Apostle Paul in the first century CE described certain men
who oppose the early Christian congregation
he reminded loyal followers of Jesus about the persecutions and sufferings
he experienced in multiple cities
his follow-up words in 2nd Timothy 312
are the theme for this material
here Paul shows that persecution would not be the experience of just a select few
he said in 2nd Timothy 312
in fact all
yes all
those designed to live with godly devotion and association with Christ Jesus
will also be persecuted
while we don't want to become unduly disturbed about what we might or might not face in the future
at the same time
we don't want to be unprepared when opposition suddenly rears its ugly head
Jesus openly discussed the possibility of persecution with his disciples
one classic example of that is found at John 1520
and 21
if you have your biblied hand please open to John 1520 and 21
he said
keep in mind the word I said to you
a slave is not greater than his master
if they have persecuted me they will also persecute you
if they have observed my word they will also observe yours
but they will do all these things against you
on account of my name because they do not know the one who sent me
it's difficult to misconstrue those words isn't it
Jesus said persecution is going to happen
therefore we need to be prepared
what are some forms of persecution we might expect
as mentioned it could be subtle forms such as negative talk about our beliefs
or sarcastic comments by schoolmates or workmates
however Jesus himself itemized more alt-right forms of persecution
at Luke 21 12 through 19 find Luke 21
12 through 19
we might mention that here Jesus was not referring to what would happen back then
in the first century
this was a prophecy about the future
he was describing what would transpire now
before the end of the evil system under Satan's control
so we expect to see an increase in such malicious opposition
it is in that context
that Jesus warns us of four different kinds of persecution
originating from various sources
Luke 21 starting in verse 12
but before all these things happen people will lay their hands on you and persecute you
handing you over to the synagogues and prisons
you'll be brought before kings and governors for the sake of my name
skip down to verses 16 and 17
moreover you'll be handed over even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends
and they'll put some of you to death
and you'll be hated by all people because of my name
family persecution is sometimes the most heart-wrenching
because of natural familial ties that exist
but did you notice in verse 12
Jesus said some would be handed over to prisons
that has been the situation for many of our brothers and pre-Christian and Christian times
for example
in the April broadcasting program
brother sannerson reviewed the situation faced by our young brothers in Korea
the RN and out of prison because of their neutral stand
what marvelous examples for any of us who come face to face
with the same treatment because of changing religious or political wins
we came across an archive video of another faithful brother
who endured four and a half years in prison in China
this is an interview from the past with brother
Harold King
I saw a policeman coming into the lane and they were
as if they were facing a machine gun attack or something they were creeping along the wall on the other side
and running up into the lane
and so I said Stanley someone going to get picked up this morning
look at the police are in the lane
because we've been seeing this quite often
they were picking up people all over the city
so what we did
we were just going to get on with our breakfast anyway
when bang bang bang on our back door
and I said Stanley it's us there after us a small
but we couldn't they couldn't find anything
they did take the files because we'd hidden nothing
and the thing is we didn't have to worry too much because they had to spy in the congregation
they gave them all the information they wanted before they came and arrested us
that fellow was originally my Bible study when he was a university student
I thought what a dirty little rotter that fellow turned out to be
and I looked straight at his face
and he wouldn't look at mine he hung his head
the magistrate says what do you know this man?
and he said yes he was my teacher
what did he teach you?
he taught me that the Chinese people's government was of the devil
and that it was going to be destroyed
and all who supported would be destroyed along with it
he said to me that what you taught him
I said well I'd like to qualify that
I sat there on the floor I had no bed
I had no chair I'd only got a concrete floor
I'd got a room four and a half by nine
and all I was in the corner was a bucket like that
I wouldn't bucket it that with the bands around it
that was my restroom
and the situation was full
the cell was full of urban
they got bugs bed bugs crawling in there
and I was bitten all over
I hadn't had any food since that breakfast
and here it was now I wasn't going to get any of that night
I used my time in the cell
I wasn't going to sit there on the floor full of self pity
I was going to go preaching
if they wouldn't let me do anything I could do something
I could practice my presentations
so each corner of the cell became a door
and I would start off and go to this door and witness
and I made it quite real from experiences that I had
not every corner was interested
this one was very interested and this one turned out to be a return visit
and a Bible study and I got a Bible study
going I didn't turn in a field service report
but it kept my mind on the scriptures
and I had no other way of doing that
I could have compromised
they told me you see they wouldn't let me cut my hair
they wouldn't let me shave
they wouldn't let me pair my nails
and I couldn't get proper exercise
and they kept saying if you will only confess that you're spies
no I would that would be betrayal
and that was the last thing I wanted to do
I had a lovely relationship with Jehovah God
I loved him very dearly
he was real he wasn't fictitious
and the whole organization the angels
and all the fine work of Paul James Peter John
the earnestness for which they kept the work going
it was my privilege to do that now
and they were my examples and I followed them
so never at any time did I think of trying to find an easy way out
well I prayed to Jehovah then and I said Jehovah
I wanted to be able to celebrate the memorial with my brothers outside
so could I see the moon on that night
and if it wasn't the full moon
I don't let me see it
well there were cloudy nights and there were bright nights
but this particular night on that first nice and 14
there wasn't a question about it
it seemed almost as if Jehovah had polished up that morning
and then I gave the memorial talk to an imaginary kingdom
awful of brothers
and I gave it through when I came to the point of passing the emblems
I would just ask Jehovah's blessing on the bread
and I'd pick up the saucer and make a pretence of passing it
around and bringing it back and making a pretence
of taking a piece myself
and then I'd put it down
and I would ask Jehovah's blessing on the cup
and do the same at my normal bug and say that
and then come back and make the pretence of drinking it
and pray Jehovah would accept that
I don't like the word depress because I never was depressed
but there were days when I felt things could go a little better than they were going
so I thought something like this
Oh come all you slaves of Jehovah on high who've given your heart to your God
out to the work you've been given to do in the footsteps
that Jesus Christ brought
and then that song came
and I used to get better
and the very fact of singing that song lifted me up out of the low spell
I was exalted
I was accelerated in realizing that just across the other side of the bridge
for the British Consulate General with my passport
and outside there were a team of brothers
that had come up and meet me from the branch
and I would be with him again
I was emotionally almost weeping with the joy of being among them again
we just got bear hugs all around
and they were so happy
and all the way home
they were asking questions how it wasn't
I was able to talk to them
and by the time I did get down there
I was getting a bit horse
because I'd been talking
and I was so sort of
wound up time being free again
and I was taking everything in as I
as I went along and I realized the beauty of Hong Kong at that time
and the work and that was being done there
faith is based on accurate knowledge
and there's the only accurate knowledge available regarding
the purpose of creation
is that contained in the Bible
so it is the case
I would say a new one
now I'm telling the brothers everywhere
get that Bible off its printed page
and get it into your heart
and then you got it
and it's a living word
and it will keep you strong in the faith
where else can you go?
There's look at the world of state that it's in today
there's no haven anywhere in this world
but there's a wonderful haven among your hopeless people
Brother King endured the persecution
he was later released and since his death in January of 1993
we are confident
he is ruling as a king with Jesus in heaven
was his endurance worth the sacrifice?
Absolutely
what is another form of persecution that Jesus specifically mentioned
at Matthew 5.11 he said that people will persecute you and lying
and say every sort of wicked thing against you for my sake
lies are particularly hurtful
because they misrepresent the true nature of a person or organization
they are often started with malicious intent
then they might be picked up by the news media and published as if factual
when in reality many of the facts never come to light
Jesus indicated that no matter what his followers did
they would be criticized and misrepresented by people who speak untruths
as an example at Matthew 11.18 he said of John the Baptist
he came neither eating nor drinking but people say he has a demon
then in the next verse
Matthew 11.19
Jesus commented on his own very different approach to the basics of life
Jesus did not follow the strict dietary restrictions of John
Jesus was also known to drink wine and moderation
the opposite approach of John who was criticized for his behavior
what lying accusations to Jesus have to face
Matthew 11.19 says
the son of man did come eating and drinking
but people say look a man who is a glutton
and is given to drinking wine a friend of tax collectors and sinners
as in the first century
we are criticized by something no matter what we do
but notice the significant comment of Jesus at the end of that verse
he said
all the same
wisdom is proved righteous by its works
in other words
people in general can usually see right through the exaggerated stories and outright lies
they know our good motives and good works and our true reputation remains intact
while we may take advantage of legal means to set the record straight
and harming with Jesus words we do not engage in smear campaigns with rebuttals
either verbally or in print
instead we continue to go about our peaceful work for the good of humanity
this includes sharing the Bible's message with all people helping them to
better their lives spiritually and morally
we translate that message in some 700 languages
some of which we've never even heard of before
we go to great lengths to help the blind in the death with publications they can comprehend
even though these are produced at significant cost
in fact
we produce video publications in some 80 different sign languages
Jesus was right
wisdom is proved righteous by its works
but what are some of the erroneous ideas that are seized upon and at times publicized by the media
some municipalities misinterpret our intent and spread lies about the nature of our public ministry
commendably however in many lands the law supports our freedom of speech and worship
and our persistence is actually set a precedent for others to enjoy similar freedoms
at times lies are spread about our view of medical intervention when sick
for example
reports are circulated that we let our children die rather than seeking medical help for them
nothing could be further from the truth
instead an isolated incident is blown out of proportion
then emotion and drama are added as fuel
and then this is fed to the press
the impression circulated is so inaccurate
that it could only be labeled a bold face lie
we want the best possible medical care for our children
of course we leave it up to the parents to determine what type of treatment will best care for their child's health condition
as we've just discussed
persecution can come in many forms
we do not need to try to imagine the various forms that it might take in the future
however
to cope successfully with whatever might come our way
we need to be aware of the possibility
that is what our program is highlighting this month
we are grateful that Jehovah has forewarned us in his word
and that Jesus made such pointed observations on the subject
please locate with me Isaiah 28 verse 16
the apostle Peter first Peter 2 6 under inspiration
made clear that this ancient prophecy pointed forward to Jesus
would become the cornerstone and foundation of the Christian congregation
if we exercise full faith in Jesus what will be our attitude and resolve regarding future opposition
read with me Isaiah 28 16
therefore this is what the sovereign
Jehovah Lord Jehovah says
here I am laying as a foundation and Zion attested stone
the precious cornerstone of a sure foundation
no one exercising faith will panic
how reassuring
Jesus is a solid foundation
giving us stability no matter what we might face now
or in the future there is no need to panic
in fact when considering the secure solid foundation of the Christ
please note the strength we derive from his example
as said fourth in Ephesians 3
16 through 21
even if we are timid by nature these verses make clear that
we can be made mighty in the person we are inside
how
by having the Christ dwell in our hearts
notice how beautifully this inspired point is made at Ephesians
chapter 3 starting in verse 16
I pray that he may grant you through the abundance of his glory to be made mighty
in the man you are inside
with power through his spirit
and that through your faith you may have the Christ dwell in your hearts
with love
and what kind of stability will embedding Jesus disposition into our heart providers
that verse continues
may you be rooted into established in the foundation
in order that with all the holy ones you may be thoroughly able to comprehend fully
what is the breadth and length and height and depth
our spiritual peripheral vision will be enhanced
we will comprehend more fully our circumstances
better than we could have had we relied simply on our own imperfect perspective
and what about being able to endure any persecution that comes our way
we absolutely can
but not by our own strength
read with me now verses 20 and 21
now to the one who can according to his power that is operating in us
do more than super abundantly beyond all the things we ask or conceive
to him be the glory by means of the congregation and by means of Christ Jesus
12 generations forever and ever
amen
we echo
amen to those insightful and strengthening words from our God
for him to do super abundantly beyond what we need is special indeed
but did you notice it said he will do more than super abundantly beyond all the things we ask
and that is why
ordinary people very much like you and I have endured extraordinary opposition
and have come through on Jehovah's side of the issue
for all of you integrity keepers to Jehovah be the glory by means of Christ Jesus
to all generations forever and ever
amen
we now like to share with you two examples of individuals who have faithfully
continued to serve Jehovah despite persecution
in both cases the opposition came from within the family
first we'd like you to meet I know her
she's a single sister who face persecution for an extended period of time
but today she has truly lived up to the word stated in Psalm 68-11
Jehovah gives the command
the women proclaiming the good news are a large army
I was born in Kazakhstan
when I was 14 years old
we moved to the country of my family
and people there are very prejudice they don't like when somebody
chose his own way of living
when I was 18
a classmate told me about Armageddon
I was frightened a little bit
in the beginning
but I wanted to learn more
and I started to read publications of Jehovah's Witnesses
that she gave me
and from the beginning I realized that
I found people that I was looking for
people without prejudice
without pride
different nationalities
but living in different countries
and that was like taking a deep breath of hope
but my family was not very happy
so several times when I tried to read Bible at home
but hiding in the corner or somewhere
they didn't want me to go to the meetings
even to keep in touch with my friends
with no one
so they kept me at home
for several months
because of this I had to
keep in secret my going to the meetings
well I was very scared
they want me to be like other people
they throw away all my literature
and they burned my Bible
my friends told me about the love they saw
at the conventions
so I wanted to experience this
but I knew that my family would never allow me to go there
so I wrote a letter
and left knowing what would happen when I come home
but a brother at the convention
he told me if I give up
my family would never
had any chance to come to the truth
over the next several years
persecution got even worse
although I was baptized
and pioneering
I felt that I couldn't make any
spiritual progress anymore
the stress affected my health
creating rush over my skin
there were days
when I wanted to close my eyes
and never wake up
but Jehovah did not forget about me
when I thought that I had no strength
to continue to grow spiritually
I got an assignment in special full-time service
as if Jehovah reached in
put his arms around me
and pulled out of my circumstances
and he gave me freedom
I was like a bird
I had no fear anymore
and could serve Jehovah freely
as I wanted to
I could freely go to the meetings
I could read literature
publication at home
I could go to the service
without fearing what can happen
when I come back
and I could go to the conventions
Jehovah gave me
blessing that I'd never thought about
to be a student
of the 100 to the 8 class of Gilead
and now I'm here
and for all single sisters
I would like to say that Jehovah
never forgets every little thing
that you do for him
he will help you to progress
he can use anybody
anywhere to do his will
I still do things by myself
but with Jehovah, I'm not alone
Truly, I know that is a good example
for all our dear single sisters
Let's now travel to the
island in Japan
and meet sister
Kimiko Nakagoa
She's a prime example
of the words in 1st Peter 3
1 that reads
In the same way, you wives
be in subjection to your husband
so that if any are not
obedient to the word
they may be one without a word
through the conduct of their wives
Sister Nakagoa's
complete trust in this divine principle
shows what can come
as a result of enduring
persecution within the family
The Saul of Saddo
That is what my husband was called
He seriously considered
having all the witnesses
expelled from this island
He was even planning to purchase an island
and have them move there
If he learned the witnesses were preaching in Saddo
he immediately set out to stop them
and possibly took our brother to the sea shore
Even so, I never considered
giving up
Eventually, he decided to divorce me
He told the children
choose who do you want to live with
your mother or me
I gave our children
whatever they wanted
but my wife gave them
the rod of discipline
They all made the same choice
They chose me
I was 100% sure that they would choose me
but they chose my wife
They chose the rod over money
Why?
How come?
It was a mystery
So I didn't divorce her
but looked into the Bible instead
She gradually made spiritual progress
joined the ministry school
and received his first assignment
but then he got a phone call
from the Minister of Agriculture
and was invited to come up to Congress to make a report
It was just on the day of his assignment
This is quite an honor
so I planned to give the report
to the Congress' priority
and refused the assignment on the school
But that morning
I found a letter on the shoebox
It was from the children
It said
we are all looking forward to Daddy's talk
I thought to myself
which is more valuable
giving a speech before Congress
or a talk before my family
who are looking forward to it so much
I called the Minister
and turned down his offer
It ruined my relationship
of cooperation with the politician
but I thought that the bond
with my family was more valuable
When I think about it
it was a tireless love, care
and respect my family showed
that won me over
Since I always came home late from work
my wife and children made
message notebooks
in order to keep good communication
with me
to our kind daddy
Welcome home
Tomorrow you have to go far
It must be hard
Please take care
Our greatest hope is that you study the Bible soon
They are so caring and affectionate
I just did what I thought I ought to
From the beginning
I was confident that my husband
would become a Jehovah's Witness
and Jehovah would never abandon
such a pure and gentle man
Isn't it only natural
that I would want to show love
and respect to win over such a man?
Now just as our children dream
we are praising Jehovah as a family
and I am enjoying pioneering with my wife
Our children have expanded their ministry
to serve in countries where the need is greater
We are enjoying Jehovah's Blessings
My husband was called the Saul of Sado
But now
in this island where he tried to expel Jehovah's Witnesses
he loves Christian friends
and zealously preaches the Bible truth
I am so thankful to Jehovah
The Saul of Sado has become a pioneer in Sado
Sister Nakagawa endured opposition for 10 years
before her husband embraced the truth
But despite the challenges at home
her circumstances allowed her to serve as a regular pioneer
Therefore it came as no surprise to me
to hear that she's now been in full-time service for almost 40 years
Although her husband Katsuo was once closely associated
with highly ranked government officials
he now supports his family mowing public lawns
simplifying his life has allowed him to join his wife as a regular pioneer
He also serves as an elder in the local congregation
The governing body has also asked me to address
another topic that I must say hits close to my heart
being a father who raised two boys
The subject is the abuse of children
and the damaging effects this can have on such innocent victims
As an organization
we view all such abuse of children
whether physical, sexual or emotional as deplorable
As you likely know
Jehovah's Witnesses take a stronger position than most
on the scriptural and appropriateness of any form of immorality
However
to take advantage of innocent young ones is absolutely despicable
As a religious organization
we have taken a decisive stand against such behavior
It is our fervent desire to protect children from any kind of abuse
Our policy as an organization
is that one professing to be a victim or his parents
should never be discouraged from reporting the incident
to the appropriate authorities
While child abuse has been perpetrated
Earthwide in many cultures for thousands of years
it has only in the past 40 years or so
that the magnitude and the extent of the problem has become better known
This is because governmental agencies are now determined to
take a more active interest in this problem
Laws were enacted requiring medical
and other professionals to report cases to the authorities
when they became aware of them
Prior to that time
many governmental, educational and religious organizations
were somewhat naive about the magnitude and the complexity of the situation
Others knew of the problem and covered it up
What has our position been as an organization?
When what was termed as the new morality became popular over 50 years ago
which included sexual relations among young ones
We condemned such behavior based on the Bibles unhearing and timeless principles
As the awareness of child abuse became more and more known
We published a landmark of Wake magazine over 30 years ago
It was the issue of June 22, 1982
There are five article titles that nailed the subject in a very straightforward manner
The first article was entitled The New Morality
Then Chickens and Hawks was the second article
It warned about homosexual men who prey on
and advocate the right to use boys for sex
Shame on them
The next article, baby pros and kitty porn
Condent prostitute rings that employed small girls in an array of abuse
Then rape at home
No further explanation needed on that
And finally the article
To end child abuse
I remembered this magazine well
Since I had two boys who were in elementary school at the time
And again remember that the world in general was still somewhat naive about the magnitude of this issue
and the gravity of the problem
I read the five articles
Then I looked at my two boys
and I set a predator of them thanking him
for moving the organization to be so proactive in trying to help parents
to protect their young ones from the plague of the new morality in the abuse of children
This issue has been straightforwardly addressed in print many times since then
I now like you to view a PSA
What is a PSA?
It stands for public service announcement
It is a message of public interest which is aired by the media without charge
The objective is to raise awareness about changing public attitudes and behavior towards a social issue
Television stations are not obligated to play all such 30 to 60 second messages provided
However, if the topic and production value captures their attention they can choose to air a PSA for the benefit of the viewing audience
In the late 1990s the governing body approved four PSAs on the subject of family life
I'd like to show you one of these that was produced back in 2002
It was picked up and aired by some of the largest TV networks in the United States
Why? Because they realized this type of warning was important for their viewing audience to see
It is true the type of computer equipment shown in the video dates it however
The message is just as pertinent now as then and maybe even more so please watch
He understands you and makes you feel special
He knows everything you're interested in he's your best friend and always there when you need him
He seems too good to be true he is parents protect your children and most of all give your children knowledge
Wisdom and thinking ability love builds happy families
While we cannot control everything that an individual might say it is clear that over the decades protecting children from abuse is a top priority for this organization
We are proud of our reputation in this regard
And we look forward to the time in God's new world when no one young or old will ever again be a victim of abuse
Since the latter part of our discussion has addressed what Jehovah's organization has done to protect children from predators
It gives me great pleasure to release it this time another animated video in the series become Jehovah's friend
It is entitled protect your children
Children Jehovah wants you to be happy and keep you safe
But some people want to do bad things to you
So Jehovah give you a conscience
It's like an alarm system that helps you to know right from wrong
It will protect you from danger
So mum and I will help you test your alarm system ready?
What if someone tells you something that makes you feel uncomfortable or scares you what do you do?
I'm not sure but that's weird
Stop
Very good tell them to stop it and you tell mum and daddy
No matter what someone tells you never keep a secret from us
What if they ask you to do something that makes you feel uncomfortable?
I would say no
You're right you should say no and walk away
What if they try to touch you where they shouldn't?
I wouldn't let them I'd get out of there
Good Caleb even if it's an adult you know and trust
You should say no and run away
And you should yell stop doing that I'm going to tell on you
Stop doing that I'm going to tell on you
The world can be a scary place but you are never alone
Remember you have your conscience
Your mum and dad will love you and you have Jehovah
We're happy to see how Jehovah's organization continues to teach our young ones
How to make wise choices when the figure of monsters of this world try to lure them into their traps
And you parents should be commended for your tireless efforts to protect your children
But when children grow up they face other challenges
One is whether to pursue a glamorous career or to serve Jehovah more fully
It can be especially tempting if it's something you are really good at or enjoy
Just like Caleb and Sophia benefited from sound guidance from their parents
So did this young brother who saw a big opportunity come his way
I love music
When I sing I feel I can do or be anything
It sets me free
My classmates tell me to pursue what I want
And my teachers think that I can have a career doing what I love
Wouldn't it be awesome to be a famous musician who is known by everyone?
I know I would never leave Jehovah
But would it be so wrong to get my career sorted first and then serve Jehovah whole soul?
Now I have an offer that can do that
You see our family has never had a lot of money
And this could change everything we could be rich
When I told dad my plans how we could have more money he was really grateful I wanted to help
He liked the idea of using my talent
But he also mentioned someone who I had never thought about
Someone who had many opportunities in life and needed to make a choice
Moses
Dad left me to think about Hebrews chapter 11 verses 24 to 26
By faith Moses when grown up refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter
Choosing to be mistreated with the people of God
Rather than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin
Because he considered the reproach of the Christ to be riches greater than the treasures of Egypt
For he looked intently toward the payment of the reward
Moses had it all
Yet he knew that while living in that Egyptian palace
He could never give Jehovah 100%
There were too many temptations
Idol worship, spiritism, materialism
He rejected this lifestyle and chose to serve Jehovah
Clearly Moses made the right career choice
What would my career be?
Even if I am successful
Is the dream that they are selling me a reality?
Or will they throw me out as soon as the next big thing comes along?
What are the risks?
Immorality?
Materialism?
Would I have the strength to resist these?
What a change, one scripture and thinking things through can make
My teachers and classmates may never understand why I chose not to pursue a career in music
But that's okay
The career I chose gives me purpose and happiness now
And has an eternal future
Now, instead of being the only thing I do in life
Teaching music helps me to support my career
Pioneering
My life is free of regret
What career choice will you make?
Similar to the choice this young brother had to make
We all face big decisions from time to time
For those who found the truth later in life
It may have been a big decision to choose to serve Jehovah
That was the case for brother Michael Lemoine from the United States
When his wife started studying the Bible with the witnesses
He was not pleased
His upbringing made her newly found faith
Difficult to accept
I was the youngest of a family of three
We lived in a little bit of town in Louisiana
It was predominantly Catholic
In the Catholic Church, the way that we were taught to pray
Was a set of repetitive prayers
Really, it was easy to pray like that
Because you really didn't have to think
Once you had those prayers memorized
Which, you know, was at a very early age
It was just a rote
Around the time that I was just about out of college going into law school
There was something missing
I wanted to be close to God
But I didn't know how
I met Sharon in 1986
And we ended up getting married the following year
Sharon and I, because she had been divorced
We were not allowed to have our marriage be conducted in the Catholic Church with a priest
And that didn't bother me at first
But over time it did
I asked them what it would take for us to be able to bless our marriage
She would have to undergo a period of sessions of religious training
When he asked me that, I said, yeah, I'll study with him
We never, ever opened up a Bible
It was a little disappointing
On that same time, there was a cellist sister
I would study with her and it was all binding
As I continued learning about the Bible
The reasoning from the Scriptures was so great
It was something that I knew I wasn't going to be able to brush off
So she came forward and said, I have something to tell you
I have been studying with the Jehovah's Witnesses for a period of time
I am convinced that this is the true religion
And I do not want to participate anymore in the Catholic faith, the Catholic Church
What moved me to tell Mike about my Bible study was Genesis 6.6
It matters what we do, how we can affect Jehovah
That he could feel hurt in his heart and it crushed me
It crushed me because he had the love that he has for us
I consider it to be the dark years because there was so much animosity on my part
He was trying to do anything he could to get me to stop
I even talked about divorce thinking that the shock and awe treatment might bring it to recenses
He would actually pack up a suitcase and leave
She, in fact, was becoming a better wife and a better mother
The sister, my teacher, she'd say, this is good that he is being so jealous about his faith
Because he loves God
Like Paul, you know, he thought that was the right thing to do
I was trained as a lawyer
I get a case, I usually know nothing about it
I do an investigation, I retain experts to help me understand what I don't understand
So, naturally, I'm going to go to my church, I'm going to go to my religious leaders, my spiritual leaders
And get them to help me with this
I made an appointment with a very, very high ranking priest
I told him that my wife was studying with the Jehovah's Witnesses
And I was seeking some help
And the first thing that he told me, and I'll never forget this, he looked straight at me
And said it would take nothing short of a miracle
For me to pull my wife away from the Jehovah's Witnesses
Because they knew the Bible so well
In my life at that point where I'm struggling, I'm trying to win over my family
That was a devastating day
So I said, Michael, the Bible, the book from God
You don't know
Why not study it?
Why not study that?
Like you study the law books or the cases
I decided that I would go with her on Sunday, on Sunday only, and only for the first half hour
I'd say it was at least a year that I went to meetings with the aim of learning and refuting it
But for now, you see how that relates to the question
You read that the earth will stay forever, that there is no trinity
There is a name for God the Father, and there is no hellfire, there is no purkatory
These things were refreshing, I was totally convinced
By October 1996, I wrote my letter to the same priest who thought it was going to be a miracle for me to get my wife out
And informed him that I was withdrawing from the Catholic faith
A large part of the transition that I made was because of the friends and the congregation
I was not a person that you'd want to approach
But then when I decided to make the change and it was fast
These people never treated me any differently, their arms were always open
Jesus tells us that no one can come to the Father unless Jehovah draws that person
What he saw, I don't know
I oftentimes pray to him
And I don't know what to say
But I'm deeply appreciative of what he's done for me
You'll be happy to know that Brother Lemoine now serves as an elder in the coordinator of the body of elders of their congregation
His wife Sharon and their children serve as regular pioneers
And sister Lemoine proved through her loyalty to Jehovah that it is possible to stand firm despite persecution from family members
As we discussed earlier in the program, persecution, opposition come in many forms
As a father I think especially of our young ones who face immense pressure in school
Be assured that these tests of faith are only temporary
With this in mind, I would like to introduce to you an encouraging music video entitled Glad I Past the Test
Seems like there's something every day, some new test that comes my way, something every day
I never know what it might be but what I know I have a key
Because I can face it if I'm steady and prepare so I'll be ready
How to act in what to say when a challenge comes my way
I just talk for me out there
And so I turn to God and I see each tiles my way
The governing body wants you young ones to know that we are sincerely proud of you
for loyally supporting Jehovah in the face of temptation and at times even ridicule
Do you remember the theme scripture referred to at the outset?
It is 2nd Timothy 312
It says all those desiring to live with godly devotion in association with Christ Jesus will also be persecuted
While the scripture clearly highlights that we can expect to be persecuted
It also provides reassurance in what way
Because it clearly states that this only happens to those who aren't association with Christ Jesus
What a privilege to be under his leadership as head of the Christian congregation
We'd like to close our program with greetings from Marygot and Mao congregations on the Caribbean island nation of Dominica
The country enjoys a ratio of one publisher to 166 people
The brothers and sisters there are very zealous and ensuring that everyone gets a witness
Even a river is no obstacle when a territory needs to be covered
Also many homes are on steep mountain sides and others in the rainforest which make some areas more difficult to access
The publishers in Dominica wanted to share this special greeting to our worldwide brotherhood
And we love them too
These two congregations have a total of 125 publishers of which four are missionaries
Three elders take the lead in it, Marygot congregation and six in the Mao congregation
The preaching work on this island territory is supervised by the Barbados branch
Thank you all of you around the world for joining us this month
We keep all of you in our prayers day and night
This is JW Broadcasting from Brooklyn, New York